review/2010808 Batavia review.md, before:

Mon PM

DS: Dan S
TS: Tim S
AM: Alisdair Meredith
WB: Walter Brown
CC: Casey Carter
RD: Rob Douglas

WB: [allocator.requirements] "the additional requirement that, when..." [so reworded]

CC: [concept.swappable] `ranges::swap` customization point needs to move into `<concepts>` [so moved]

CC: [concept.swappable] [The example is] user-code, but `ranges` name qualification is busted [`ranges::` fixed]

TS/CC: [concept.swappable] "swappable with" and "swappable" are terms of art but should be struck [struck]

AM: [memory.syn] I think that these concepts should be named [question to LWG]

CC: [memory.syn] Lack of [`noexcept`] requirement is to support older code. We could add requirement to be marked `noexcept` [question to LWG]

DS: [memory.syn] `uninitialized_copy_n_result` is redundant with `<algorithm>`'s `copy_result` [reuse `copy_result`]

AM: [memory.syn] would like copy result [et al] to be deducible [Mike is proposing CTAD for aggregates]

TS: [memory.syn] Look at `insert_return_type` to get wording to ensure structured binding works and prevent private members [done for all `_result` types]

AM: [memory.syn] Why not `Range` instead of `Rng` [for template parameter names]? ... Rename [everywhere] to `R` [Rename `([Rr])ng` to `$1`. Rename "Relation" template parameters from `R` to `C`. (no change marks)]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] "In this subclause, the names of template parameters are used to express type requirements for those algorithms defined directly in namespace std." [Rephrased]

CC: [specialized.algorithms] Last sentence of P1 needs to be a separate paragraph [separated]

TS: [specialized.algorithms] `advance` and `distance` are they always `std::`? [Neither `std::` nor `ranges::` will work in all cases.] [Reworded to remove uses of `+` and define semantics for `-` without using `distance`.]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] Would like to reorder p3 first sentence like we did for p1. [so reordered: note this is now p4]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] Suggest a note like “This means that these algorithms may not be called with explicit template arguments” [added a note]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] "When invoked on ranges of potentially overlapped subobjects, the algorithms specified in this subclause result in undefined behavior." [so rephrased]

AM: [special.mem.concepts] When talking about an assignment not throwing, do you mean any assignment? ... spell it out entirely [spammed out]

AM: [uninitialized.construct.default] Would suggest a function like `voidify` to replace the `static_cast` and `const_cast`s [added `voidify`]

CC: [uninitialized.fill] I'd like to change all the `_n` algorithms to use CTAD for `counted_iterator` rather than `make_counted_iterator` [especially since we struck `make_counted_iterator`!]. [Replaced throughout]

TS: [specialized.destroy] `destroy_at` needs to correctly handle a pointer to array [done]

AM: [range.comparisons] why follow idiom of templatizing on type? [Proposed redesign in P1252R0]

TS: [string.view.iterators] Suggest changing all usages of "contiguous iterator" to the concept version. [So changed]

ALL: [iterator.synopsis] `-> auto&&` is a bogus deduction constraint. [Replaced with a valid constraint]

AM: [iterator.synopsis] Recommend putting Permutable, Mergeable, and Sortable into Algorithms header [not changing at this time, rationale on the reflectors.]

TS: [iterator.requirements.general]/12 & /14 “Up to but not including the element pointed to by the…” -> “Up to but not including the element, if any, pointed to by the…” [so changed]

TS: [iterator.requirements.general] last sentence of p13 duplicates first sentence of p15.

TS: last sentence of p13 duplicates first sentence of p15.
WB: Would like to strike first sentence
CC: We need the phrase ‘a range is valid’. can put this in p13
TS: move second sentence to p14. [so rearranged]

WB: [iterator.requirements.general] "Functions in the library" -> "library functions" [so changed]

Commit message:

[special.mem.concepts] require nothrow SMFs for no-throw-sentinel; qualify references to ranges::begin and ::end

review/2010808 Batavia review.md, after:

Mon PM

DS: Dan S
TS: Tim S
AM: Alisdair Meredith
WB: Walter Brown
CC: Casey Carter
RD: Rob Douglas

WB: [allocator.requirements] "the additional requirement that, when..." [so reworded]

CC: [concept.swappable] `ranges::swap` customization point needs to move into `<concepts>` [so moved]

CC: [concept.swappable] [The example is] user-code, but `ranges` name qualification is busted [`ranges::` fixed]

TS/CC: [concept.swappable] "swappable with" and "swappable" are terms of art but should be struck [struck]

AM: [memory.syn] I think that these concepts should be named [question to LWG]

CC: [memory.syn] Lack of [`noexcept`] requirement is to support older code. We could add requirement to be marked `noexcept` [question to LWG]

DS: [memory.syn] `uninitialized_copy_n_result` is redundant with `<algorithm>`'s `copy_result` [reuse `copy_result`]

AM: [memory.syn] would like copy result [et al] to be deducible [Mike is proposing CTAD for aggregates]

TS: [memory.syn] Look at `insert_return_type` to get wording to ensure structured binding works and prevent private members [done for all `_result` types]

AM: [memory.syn] Why not `Range` instead of `Rng` [for template parameter names]? ... Rename [everywhere] to `R` [Rename `([Rr])ng` to `$1`. Rename "Relation" template parameters from `R` to `C`. (no change marks)]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] "In this subclause, the names of template parameters are used to express type requirements for those algorithms defined directly in namespace std." [Rephrased]

CC: [specialized.algorithms] Last sentence of P1 needs to be a separate paragraph [separated]

TS: [specialized.algorithms] `advance` and `distance` are they always `std::`? [Neither `std::` nor `ranges::` will work in all cases.] [Reworded to remove uses of `+` and define semantics for `-` without using `distance`.]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] Would like to reorder p3 first sentence like we did for p1. [so reordered: note this is now p4]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] Suggest a note like “This means that these algorithms may not be called with explicit template arguments” [added a note]

WB: [specialized.algorithms] "When invoked on ranges of potentially overlapped subobjects, the algorithms specified in this subclause result in undefined behavior." [so rephrased]

AM: [special.mem.concepts] When talking about an assignment not throwing, do you mean any assignment? ... spell it out entirely [spammed out]

TS (offline): [special.mem.concepts] `begin`/`end` need `ranges::` qualification. Also, should *`no-throw-sentinel`*
require non-throwing SMFs as do the *`no-throw-XXX`* iterator concepts? [Yes: we want implementations to be able to
use `std::ranges::destroy` for cleanup.]

AM: [uninitialized.construct.default] Would suggest a function like `voidify` to replace the `static_cast` and `const_cast`s [added `voidify`]

CC: [uninitialized.fill] I'd like to change all the `_n` algorithms to use CTAD for `counted_iterator` rather than `make_counted_iterator` [especially since we struck `make_counted_iterator`!]. [Replaced throughout]

TS: [specialized.destroy] `destroy_at` needs to correctly handle a pointer to array [done]

AM: [range.comparisons] why follow idiom of templatizing on type? [Proposed redesign in P1252R0]

TS: [string.view.iterators] Suggest changing all usages of "contiguous iterator" to the concept version. [So changed]

ALL: [iterator.synopsis] `-> auto&&` is a bogus deduction constraint. [Replaced with a valid constraint]

AM: [iterator.synopsis] Recommend putting Permutable, Mergeable, and Sortable into Algorithms header [not changing at this time, rationale on the reflectors.]

TS: [iterator.requirements.general]/12 & /14 “Up to but not including the element pointed to by the…” -> “Up to but not including the element, if any, pointed to by the…” [so changed]

TS: [iterator.requirements.general] last sentence of p13 duplicates first sentence of p15.

TS: last sentence of p13 duplicates first sentence of p15.
WB: Would like to strike first sentence
CC: We need the phrase ‘a range is valid’. can put this in p13
TS: move second sentence to p14. [so rearranged]

WB: [iterator.requirements.general] "Functions in the library" -> "library functions" [so changed]
